Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-solvedword-frequency-maps-solutions
<br>
In this homework assignment, we will analyze the frequency and sequencing of words in sentences in samples of English text. Then we will generate new sequences of strings that mimic these statistics and present these sequences as computer-generated text. The key idea is that if particular words often appear together in the sample text, then it is likely that stringing together these common pairs of words will form plausible phrases or sentences. This statistical model is called a Markov chain. By using STL’s associative container (map) we can make this system eﬃcient and elegant. Please carefully read the entire assignment before beginning your implementation. As an example, let’s consider the text of the Brothers Grimm fairy tale Hansel and Gretel, available from Project Gutenberg http://www.gutenberg.org/. In this text (translated from the original German to English), the word “could” appears 5 times. 2 of those times it is immediately followed by “not” and the other 3 times it is followed by “be”, “get”, and “no” (once each). If we start a phrase or sentence with the word “could”, a good guess for the second word is “not”. The statistics of the word “not” tell us it appears 26 times. 3 of those times it is followed by “ﬁnd” (more often than any other word), so we choose “ﬁnd” as our third word. Then we look up the statistics for “ﬁnd”, etc. This process yields a plausible phrase “could not ﬁnd the forest”, which in fact does not appear in the original text! This general strategy has been used to generate plausible (but often nonsensical) sentences. Here’s a famous example written by Mark V. Shaney (a computer program written by Bruce Ellis): “I spent an interesting evening recently with a grain of salt.” Using an STL map to Store the Word Frequency &amp; Sequencing As we process the sample text we’ll keep track of all the words we have seen, and for each word we’ll keep track of all the words that immediately followed that word, and the number of times each pair of words appeared together. We will use maps to store this information. The picture at the right represents the map structure created when the text below is read into the data variable using the LoadSampleText function. see spot run see jane see jane run jane jane 2 1 1 1 see 1 run see spot run 1 run see spot What is the type of the data variable suggested by this example and diagram? Hint: there are two maps! How will you process and store the long sequence of words from the sample text into this structure? Note: We treat the input as one big run-on sentence. We provide some code that will help you parse large input ﬁles (like the plain text books available from Project Gutenberg) and ignore punctuation and capitalization. Next Word Prediction Once the sample text is stored into the data variable, your next task will be to implement the NextWord function. Given the last word in the current sequence, this function will use the statistics in data to select the next word for the sequence. Your function should work in two diﬀerent modes: 1) selecting the most frequently observed next word or 2) selecting at random with the probabilities observed in the sample text. So using the second mode to chose the word after “could”, we will select “not” with 2/5 = 40% probability, and “be”, “get”, and “no” with 1/5 = 20% probability each. Input/Output &amp; Basic Functionality Your program should not expect any command line arguments, and will read from std::cin and write to std::cout, but you will probably ﬁnd it helpful to redirect the input (&amp; output) to trick your program into reading from &amp; writing to ﬁles (see the course webpage under “Other Information”). Each line of input data begins with a keyword signaling one of four commands. load hansel and gretel.txt 2 ignore punctuation This command loads the sample text from the speciﬁed ﬁle and stores the sequence and frequency information into the data variable map structure. The integer parameter speciﬁes the window width over which sequencing data should be collected (to begin the assignment use window=2, but more on this later). The last parameter indicates how punctuation (and capitalization) should be handled. Implementing special parsing of punctuation and using punctuation in your word selection and output is extra credit. print “could” With this command, we query the statistics in the data variable, to learn what words were observed to follow the speciﬁed word (or phrase). The word (or phrase) will be in double quotes (allowing us to have multiple words). We provide code to help you parse this input. This query on the Hansel and Gretel data produces this output (to cout). could (5) could be (1) could get (1) could no (1) could not (2) generate “could” 4 most common This is the more interesting command. Here we are requesting to add 4 more words to the initial word (or phrase) by selecting the highest frequency follow-on word. This command will output the phrase “could not ﬁnd the forest” with the Hansel and Gretel database. generate “could” 10 random And similarly, this command generates 10 words to follow “could”, but using a random draw from the observed word sequence frequencies. quit This command closes the program. These commands may be entered directly from std::cin during an interactive data querying and play session, or drawn in from a ﬁle using ﬁle redirection. We encourage you to use the MersenneTwister (mtrand.h &amp; mtrand.cpp) code to generate good random numbers. To see if your program matches our output exactly (except for the randomness of course!), you may use the command line UNIX library program diff (available for Linux, MacOSX, and Cygwin), which takes two ﬁles as arguments and outputs the diﬀerences between them. WinDiﬀ is another option for Windows users. Please see a TA or the instructor in oﬃce hours if you have a question about these programs. Expanding the Sequencing Window or Context So far, our examples have considered only the last word in the current sequence when selecting the next word, but in fact we can usually create more realistic phrases and sentences by expanding the context or window of the sequencing probabilities. Speciﬁcally when generating the third word, let’s not just consider the second word, but let’s consider both the ﬁrst and the second word. For the Hansel and Gretel input, the 2 word sequence “could not” appears just twice, followed by “get” and “see” (once each). This suggests that one of these words is perhaps a better choice for the third word than the earlier example’s selection of “ﬁnd”. (Note: when we have a tie for the most frequently appearing next word, we will chose the ﬁrst alphabetically, in this case “get”.) Similarly, to generate the fourth word, using window = 3, we start with the sequence “not get” and discover that the only time this subphrase appears in the sample text it is followed by “out”. Let’s expand our data map type diagram accordingly. 2 Note: Other data structure designs for this application are possible, but please follow the diagram below for this assignment to ensure you get plenty of practice with STL map. However, there are tradeoﬀs to using a much larger window or context. First of all, the map data structure will require more memory. Furthermore, if the context is too large, the technique can “overﬁt” the data. If only one passage of the text matches the query sequence over the large window, then the computer will not have any choices when generating the sequence, and the output will just be a copy of a single passage of the sample text. For the core homework assignment, ﬁrst implement the 2 word window shown in the ﬁrst diagram. When that is working, move to the 3 word window in the diagram on the right. For full credit on the homework, your code should work with window=2 and window=3. For extra credit, extend your solution to work for any window size. Warning: this extension is not straightforward. You may add components to this diagram for your implementation, but the overall structure and arrangement of data should keep the same spirit. Performance &amp; Order Notation Consider the performance of each of the commands outlined above. Let n be the total number of words in the sample text ﬁle, let m be the number got out could get not be not no get out see get 1 1 in 1 longer1 1 nevertheless of 3 1 find get see their 1 1 it1 the out 2 it 1 his it the their 2 1 3 1 of of unique words in the ﬁle, let w be the width of the sequencing window, and let p be the average number of words observed in the sample to follow a particular word. How much memory will the map data structure require, in terms of n, m, w, and p (order notation for memory use)? What is the order notation for performance (running time) of each of the commands? Write these answers in your README.txt ﬁle. You are not explicitly required to create any new classes when completing this assignment, but please do so if it will improve your program design. We expect you to use const and pass by reference/alias as appropriate throughout your assignment. We have provided a partial implementation of the main program to get you started. You may use none, a little, or all of this, as you choose, but we strongly urge you to examine it carefully. Extra Credit There are many options for extra credit on this assignment. (As usual though, the total number of points awarded to extra credit work will be small.) You may brainstorm and implement an extension for punctuation data. In particular, recognizing the end of a sentence (a period or question mark), might improve the readability of your phrases and sentences. If your implementation supports the use of any window size, summarize the results of your testing with diﬀerent window sizes. What feels like the “right” window size for a particular dataset? Be sure to make up your own test cases too. Project Gutenberg is an excellent resource. Report your performance statistics on your largest test cases. Obviously, you won’t be able to submit large datasets (due to the hw submission size), but describe them in your README.txt and cut &amp; paste any interesting “philosophical” statements your program generates. Submission Use good coding style and detailed comments when you design and implement your program. Please use the provided template README.txt ﬁle for any notes you want the grader to read, including work for extra credit. You must do this assignment on your own, as described in the “Collaboration Policy &amp; Academic Integrity”. If you did discuss the problem or error messages, etc. with anyone, please list their names in your README.txt ﬁle.